# Strava-API-Data-Analysis
I love running and data. After each run, I look at certain factors that I will determine how I will train for my next race. Strava is a mobile and website that allows users to track and upload rides and runs using GPS data. I have been using Strava for three years to log my runs, bike rides, and swims. By using Strava’s open API, I analyzed data from my runs over the past year. I have been actively training since May 2021. Since then, I completed a marathon and 5k run in 4.5 hours and 20.0 minutes, respectively. 
I wanted to determine if I am running too fast or too slow for injury prevention. I predicted that most of my runs (approximately 60 percent) will be ran at conversational pace, according to the average speed of each run. Common running injuries are caused by over-training and running too fast while training. Using the Stava’s open API, I removed all dates before the training period and analyzed data from my runs since May 2021.
The resources that helped me gather and analyze data from Strava’s public API were Fran Polignano’s tutorials on YouTube, Matt Ambrogi’s article on Medium, Strava Developers documentation and documentation for using Pandas, matplotlib, and numpy in Python. 
After I manipulated my Strava data to show me my runs and average speed per run in a data set, counted the number of runs at tempo pace, conversational pace, and slow pace. I determined that approximately 20 percent of my runs were at tempo pace, 40 percent of my runs were at conversational pace, and 40 percent of my runs were at slow pace, which is based on the average speed of the run. 
I used data visualization using matplotlib to graph this data into a pie chart in Python. 
I am proud of this project because it is a cross section of both of my hobbies that I truly enjoy. Also, it showed a direct application of data analysis. Going forward, it is my goal to train more at a conversational pace. 
Also, this project has also been helpful to understand and apply APIs. As I grow as a runner and data scientist, I will use Strava’s API to develop more complex projects, such as a custom training program that I will develop using Python. It is my goal to develop a training program that will be used by me and runners alike.
